it's a bit cold today. early spring. i'm trying to quit weed. i drove to purdue this morning to take my CNIT 270 exam. i found out when i got back that they moved my grandma to comfort care. when i walked in the door and saw the posture of my sister and my father sitting in the kitchen, i knew immediately what had happened. my first impression was that she'd already died. it was only a week ago that they were saying she was getting better. she's been getting sick enough to go to the hospital a few times before this. i did not think the big one would be coming so soon. 
i went to the hospital with my dad at 3:15. i don't remember when we arrived. when we walked towards the hospital entrance, he told me to "steel myself." i didn't expect to get emotional. i was overcome with numbness from the moment i got home and understood. we approached the room she stayed in, B332, and i snooped on the heartrate monitors that she was at 145.
when i walked in the room, my pastor and his wife who i have not seen in at least a year were there. i was immediately overcome with the most intense emotion i think i have ever felt in my life at this sight. my pastor said a prayer. i think its the first time i closed my eyes for a prayer in 10 years. i held back tears for about two minutes before my aunt karen, also holding back tears, came and hugged me and we cried on each other for about five minutes. nicki started crying after seeing us.
she encouraged me to go to my grandma's bedside and talk to her. i dont remember what i said exactly. it was three sentences total, the last one, "i love you." i stood there for maybe two more minutes thinking of things to say before sitting down and dissociating for forty minutes until my dad decided to take us back. 
the forty minutes were filled mostly with passive conversation between the people in the room. me, my dad, karen, berry, nicki, jamie, and some other white woman whose name i think is sonja or something. she called me "buddy" as we left. 