1. HOW MUCH OF MY UNHAPPINESS IS ATTRIBUTABLE TO AALYN, AND HOW MUCH OF IT IS A NATURAL CONSEQUENCE OF A RELATIONSHIP WITH ANYONE?
	1. What is my unhappiness with Aalyn?
		1. Unbelievably needy/high maintenance
		2. Incredibly strange sense of ownership over my time; never in my life have I indicated I have any responsibility to give it to her, either. This entitlement is one of the biggest character flaws she has and should be examined a bit more thoroughly.
		3. Irresponsible; low executive function
		4. I cannot trust her to maker her own decisions most of the time
		5. Her family is.. questionable at best, disgusting at worst (more realistically).
		6. While she recognizes many of the ways her family is disgusting and revolts against some of those elements, she seems incapable of truly learning from the whole experience and applying what she's learned. It requires too much intervention on my part that often ends up being too forceful.
			1. I would not be willing to date/marry a pure example of her family members. I find them kind of revolting. If she does not take a harder line against her upbringing and instead regresses into it, the relationship cannot continue.
		7. She cannot recognize that her problems are our problems. She seems much more interested in my problems than she does her own. This feels almost intentional at this point.
			1. Cannot blame her exactly for trying to intentionally obscure this logic, despite it being obviously true. It would involve a lot of guilt on her part, which she cannot accept, she must always be right about everything.
		8. She makes it difficult for me to grow
		9. She has no idea what I want. I also have no idea what I want, but she has even less of an idea.
		10. She has absolutely no clue what she wants, I think the best place to start with her would be asking her what she feels like she wants and then writing down the exact opposite of that.
		11. She cannot ever truly test/challenge herself
		12. She cannot make it through a single conversation about topics like this without crying. She can not really make it a single day without crying. And (back to #7) she cannot (will not?) see how this effects me too.
		13. I put in much more to this relationship than she does.
		14. We cannot be a normal couple who hangs out with other couples or other people in general because she will just go nonverbal if she's around someone she doesn't already know
		15. We cannot go places with higher than average levels of stimulation or she will just shut down or have a panic attack
		16. She will practically never take initiative to fix anything unless I push her to or just do it herself
		17. Very poor communicator. Cannot hash out her thoughts. Will just sit there and say nothing instead. Mostly a runoff of #3 and #12.
	2. Line item basis: which of these problems are probably general to most relationships?
		1. Certainly not all of them; ballpark of 60-80% maybe though, otherwise the concept of 'high-maintenance' wouldn't exist
		2. Almost none. This one I think is exclusive. She is so unbelievably inconsiderate about this.
		3. Also very uncommon, but more common than #2. I think (hope?) this goes away with time. If it doesn't it will be a serious thing to consider breaking up over.
		4. This is just a runoff from #3.
		5. Depressingly common. Most Americans are actually insane. But a weird truth is that being in college is one of the best times to find people whose families are not crazy.
		6. Too specific to say
		7. Very very rare, it's a specific consequence of her pushing more emotional labor onto me than vice versa.
			1. Could a cure be pushing more emotional labor onto her? How do I even do that?
				1. I've tried this in the past without realizing it, upon further reflection. Each time I stop because she has an emotional outburst that is worse than mine and ends up making me feel bad. Which kind of speaks for itself here.
		8. Hard to say without more experience; "she makes it harder" =/= she makes it impossible. So far I've made it work for the most part I think.
		9. This is almost everyone i think
		10. Also ^
		11. Most people, but not most people in college
		12. Probably about 50%; I see this discussed a lot
		13. The holistic effect here is hard to say becuase it's an emergent property of many other things.
		14. Incredibly rare
		15. Quite rare
		16. Hard to say
		17. Rare
2. HOW DO I CONTRIBUTE TO THE DYSFUNCTION OF OUR RELATIONSHIP?
	1. I'm a drug addict
	2. I'm very ambitious
	3. I have a very weird thing with the sensation of touch
	4. I have weird interests
	5. I'm extremely introverted; need a high portion of alone time
	6. I like money a bit too much
	7. Not a great communicator
	8. High standards (she should want this?)
	9. I do not act or pretend. I show my feelings on my face
3. WHAT IS RIGHT IN OUR RELATIONSHIP THAT IS NOT RIGHT WITH MOST RELATIONSHIPS?
	1. We have sex I think
	2. We love each other
	3. The basic practicals are aligned; we're going to the same college, have compatible careers, and we agree on kids, god, and politics
	4. No track record of or proclivity to cheating
	5. 