I've been an asshole for as long as I can remember. I'm sure I was a typical little boy, but as an adolescent, I was awful. I've told you about this before. Amanda can tell you plenty about it. I started changing around when I was 15, and every year since then my life has gotten better. I felt like my progress started slowing down in 2021, so I started to get a little worried, but the past year has been so much better than I ever could have anticipated. 
You are a major reason for that. Without you, I do not think I would have had the confidence or sense of self to do what I have done. You have put so much more color into my life. You have occupied many of the best days of my life, something I anticipate will stay true for the rest of my life. 
I love you so much. I would not still be here if I didn't love you. I do everything I do because I love you and I want the best for you. I want you to be happy. It does not matter how many times you say it isn't my problem, it becomes my problem whether I want it to be or not. It makes me unhappy for you to be unhappy. Love potentiates empathy. 
There is no my problem, or your problem. There is only our problems. I do not care how much you want this to not be the case, it is, and you know it is. You just don't want to admit that 

I know you think I'm getting sick of you. I was afraid I was too for a bit, but I'm not. I'm not getting sick of you, but, I'm sorry, I am getting sick of your problems. They are not your fault. Not much at all is your fault, really. The hand we're dealt in life is not fair. Nothing about it is. I think that most of your problems are downstream from a trauma response related chronic fatigue. None of your behavior cleanly maps onto any mental illness; the only one that comes to mind at all is ADHD, which notably *is not a mood disorder*. Also notable is you've evaded diagnosis, so your case cannot be too severe. I do not think you are mentally ill. I think your mental issues are most likely caused by physical processes; the worst among them your inability to truly rest in your house due to the physical space being closely associated with your greatest stressors. 

Note: I wrote this all before I explained this to you on the night of my birthday, but I feel like it's worth keeping as a reminder.

Thinking about your case of chronic fatigue has led me to some insights about myself, namely why I behaved so shy in high school. Most of my stressors came from school. I learned to cope by keeping my nose in a book all day and being known by essentially nobody, which lead to massive variances in my maturity. But this is not about me.
This is why I am so adamant that you go to college. I sincerely believe that moving out of your house will relieve a lot of your mental pressure. Sleep is one of the most important parts of mental health, maybe the most important. I've noticed that, if you look at any of the days of my life that I have been credibly suicidal, I got poor sleep the night before. This is true of most of my bad days in general as well. I think your ability to sleep is going to return when you are removed from your house for a few days. For a while, you're probably going to be sleeping for a very, very long time to catch up on the pent up sleep debt you have. Which is good!
The first time I began to think this was about a year ago, as an explanation for why you always fall asleep so quickly at my house. A pent up need for sleep induced by a chronic sympathetic nervous system response to a stress-associated environment seems the most likely explanation to me. I notice my sympathetic nervous system completely shuts down when I'm around you. I imagine the same is probably true of you, too. 

The second physical issue causing mental issues for you, I think, is your sedentary lifestyle. Which I want to say again, is not your fault. This is the norm, actually. Another thing that is the norm, unfortunately, is body image issues. However, there's an intervention that is more effective against body image issues than any drug has ever shown to be at anything, and that intervention is strength training. There are literally dozens of studies that parrot the same findings. Your Purdue account gives you access to them all. Nothing in nutrition or health science is as clear as the association between strength training and positive body image. 
In "Effects of weight training on the emotional well-being and body image of females: predictors of greatest benefit" (https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/10146790/), Dr. Karen Maxwell found that, "The weight trainers (M = +23.78, SD = 22.57) showed a significantly greater improvement than the comparison group (M = - 1.37, SD = 17.55) from pretest to posttest on the Body Cathexis Scale (ANOVA:F = 59.4,  p = .0001). There were no significant changes from pretest to posttest for the comparison group."
I'm going to explain the math of that result in this paragraph, skip it if you feel like it. The average woman in this study saw a 23.78 point increase on a self-report inventory that analyzes "body cathexis", which essentially means body image. The average young woman has a score of about 130 points on that test, with the standard deviation being 25 points. "Standard deviation" means that 68% of the subjects are within the range above or below the mean by the value of the standard deviation. So in this case, it means 68% of young women score within 105 and 155 on that test. And, what this means for the increase result, is that 68% of weightlifting women in this study saw between a 1-50 point increase on that measure. The main predictor of score increases was prior weightlifting activity; about half the women in the study were already weightlifters, and this group saw the least increase, which is the majority of the population that saw negative or no change in body image, while non-weightlifters who began weightlifting at the start of the study saw by far the greatest increases, likely occupying the higher ends of the range, which I have an author's quote for.
In the discussion of the results of that study, the authors say "Subjects who had not been involved in any regular physical activity other than weight training during the study period tended to show greater improvement in body attitudes than their more active counter-parts." The women in the study who did not exercise before starting exercise saw the greatest improvement in their body image. 
Also somewhat relevant, the authors find that shorter women saw greater benefits to their body image, and that the effect was greater as height got lower. There is also much evidence that women with lower starting body image see greater benefits.


Nobody actually knows why strength training is this effective at improving body image. It is the source of a lot of controversy. One thing that can be ruled out is the most obvious intuitive answer, that your body becomes more attractive, and so you feel better about it, most notably because women see greater benefits in body image than men, despite men's bodies having a much greater response to strength training. It's clear that the process is less abstract than that, that it happens on a physical level, not a psychological one. Strength training must directly make change in your brain in a way that improves body image for these results to make sense.
To speculate, and feel free to skip this, I think this is due to the environment that the human mind evolved to occupy. Humans did not evolve behaving as we do today. The human body is built with the assumption that it will need to see some strain and gain. So then, the correct way to think about it is not that "strength training directly changes your brain in a way that improves your body image", the correct way to think about it is, "a normal modern sedentary lifestyle far outside the evolutionary norm directly changes your brain in a way that makes your body image unrealistically low, and the easiest way to mimic the evolutionary norm in the modern world is strength training." 
The physical process that makes this happen is not known, but if I had to guess, I'd say it's something to do with bones. Your bones actually do a lot; they make red blood cells and stem cells, mostly, but they also undergo a lot of changes in response to strength training. In short, they get denser and more resistant, which makes sense. But that's actually really hard for a bone to do and the process is very complex and involves a lot of different hormonal changes in the body; there was some drug trial a few decades ago that interacted with this process and caused a bunch of weird side effects for weightlifters, which is how this system was even discovered in the first place. But yeah, my theory, bones.

//

I'm worried about next semester. I hope I'm wrong to worry, but your constant expressing of not wanting to go makes me afraid that, once you get there, you're going to sabotage yourself. I need you to understand that this is not something I'm allowing you to do. You need to apply yourself. College will only heal you if you enable it to. I think a lot of that is passive, just through getting enough sleep and not being around your parents all the time. But just as much of it is an active effort you need to make. 

I'm not sure what my red lines are, but I am not going to stick in this relationship forever if I feel like you are deliberately holding yourself back. I need to be sure that you are committed to growth. I do not want to be dating an 18 year old forever. One red line I think I have is that I am not going to tolerate deliberate self sabotage. You are more than good enough to get your degree. But you do need to try for it.

//

This is an unrelated topic, but because I do really love you and want the best for you, I want you to know my thoughts. Firstly, I do not want to break up with you. I am going to do everything I can to make this relationship work for the both of us. 
I think you are very prone to being caught in an abusive relationship. No matter what may happen between us, you will always be my first love, and I will always want the best for you. 
I think you are not capable of reading men. It did not at all surprise me that Jaxon tried so hard, and so pathetically, to reach you after you blocked him. It did seem to surprise you, though, because you didn't understand what he wanted. In his case, I think it was just a benign crush, but it indicates a blind spot on your part that a worse man could leverage. 
I don't have advice for this because it's not something I have experienced before, I just wanted you to be aware of this.

//

To end, I want to 