Access Control Lists (ACLs) are the simplest method of providing authorization. Requires a separate authentication method.
	Each restricted resource has a list of users that are allowed to access it

A directory is a centralized, hierarchical database about objects in an IT system. Organizes information and objects, such as users and groups, devices, and applications.
	Different protocols, functions, and APIs allow access to directory information. These allow benefit provided by the directory to users to be more finely tuned. 
	Can also provide centralized authentication & single sign on in an enterprise setting
	Enables a general "phone book" for network users
	Provides for granularity of administration
		A user can be given admin rights for only a portion of the directory
		Lots of options available for assigning users administrative control

Directories are typically arranged either geographically or functionally
	Geographical - Root branches out to different geographical locations; different offices, different states, different countries, etc
	Functional - Root branches out to different roles within the enterprise

Anything in the directory except the root can be moved to anywhere else in the directory. This is called pruning and grafting because of the tree metaphor.

Attributes describe "leaf objects" -- objects who have no smaller divisions or categories. Printers, computers, people, etc.

Organizational Units (OUs) are organizational containers. They can be nested.
Distinguished Names (DN) are used to refer to individual entries. Like a filepath but for an item in a directory.
Absolute DN includes the complete location of the item from the root
Relative DN only lists the location from the current as set in the client

Directories typically have 4 layers. C - country, o - organization, ou - organizational unit, cn - common name

The X.500 directory standard is developed by ITU-T and is incorporated into the OSI model. It introduced the concepts of a tree, leaf, DN, and RDN. 