Victimology is often a better place to start because victims are more honest about their victimhood than criminals are about their criminalness. 

History for some reason

First law code we know of was Hammurabi's Code, eye for an eye and all that.
Next came mosaic law, the ten commandments.
English Common Law around the 1100s was the first modern legal system that uses a system of precedents. 
	"Mala in se" action is evil in itself and therefore illegal; rape murder etc
	"Mala prohibitum" action is illegal because it's illegal; typically social contract-negative externality related, such as traffic laws

Substantive criminal law - the description of what is illegal in a society
Procedural criminal law - the process of enforcing the law, trials, due process, etc.
Civil law - agreements between people; wills, property, contracts
Public law - laws about controlling the government

A tort is a violation of civil law, such as a car crash. There are negligent torts, intentional torts, and strict liability

Substantive criminal law has a few objectives:
	Enforcing social control and preserving social order
		Discouraging revenge
		Deterring criminal behavior
		Punishing wrongdoing
	Expressing public opinion and morality
	Providing restoration

Misdemeanor vs felony: Felonies are more intense; you're in prison for at least a year. Misdemeanor means prison for less than a year.

Mens rea - intention behind the crime; criminal knowingly committed the crime while knowing it was a crime, or under criminal negligence
Not all crimes require mens rea; ex strict liability

Actus reus - where inaction, or not meeting an obligation, is a crime. Usually contract bound relationships. 

Criminal laws evolve over time. It reflects social and economic conditions, which often change due to shifts in culture or highly publicized cases. E.g. sodomy, Lawrence v. Texas.
