guys did you remember last week when i told you psychoanalysis is bad
well im here to tell you again this week that psychoanalysis is still bad

Modern therapy tends to be "eclectic". That word means to draw from different methods. 2 types.
	Technical eclectics draw techniques from the different approaches (more common)
	Integrative eclectics try to synthesize a single approach that draws on principles from all approaches.

Sometimes people do group therapy, where say 5 people do therapy at once. This can help people not feel alone with their problems and learn from others like them. Also tends to be a lot cheaper obviously. 
Sometimes there's also family therapists, who focus on dynamics and relationships.

Research shows that therapy does help people get better, but that there are not statistically significant differences between the approaches to therapy. It seems that the commonalities of therapy are more important than the differences. 
Some therapies are more effective for specific conditions than others are, though
	Cognitive therapy works best at depression, behavior works best for depression, phobias, and bedwetting, and CBT works best for anxiety and eating disorders

Drugs and therapy together are often the best way to treat disorders. But, as previously discussed, drugs are a lot cheaper, and also a lot less work for the client. 
	There's controversy with drugs over treating the symptoms vs. treating the disorders. For some disorders, the differences are difficult to parse. For others, the reduction of symptoms can sometimes lead psychiatrists to think that the drugs prevent progress, because it removes the motivation for the patient to get better. 