Once you have listened to it, write one original post, with a minimum of 400 words, that shares your thoughts on this story, on the DSM, and the interactions between science and culture. Then, make at least two reply posts, each with a minimum of 150 words. (You will not be allowed to read others' posts until you make your own original post.) -- ==MINIMUM 463 WORDS==

This story shows how science can react and respond to a changing culture. Science does not typically conflict with culture, its natural place is beneath it. Culture procures the questions that science answers. But in this case, there was no consensus in the country's culture over the existence of gay people. In some cases, culture lead scientists to presume that being gay is the result of a pathology, and that pathologies ought to be cured. In other cases, culture lead gay rights activists to interrupt APA meetings and phone threats to old-school psychiatrists. And, eventually, culture lead to the APA's upper management being democratically taken over by a group of gay psychiatrists who asked a different set of questions.
Science has a limited check on culture. In this case, it can seem like science has a large effect on culture, when you consider the negative impact on gay people of the early biased studies on only gay people who were in psychiatric care already, or the later studies that showed psychiatrists incapable of separating survey results from a random group of gay people from a random group of straight people. But, it's important to remember that the APA is a scientific institution. Of course science will have a larger impact on the culture of a scientific institution. Most institutions are not scientific. 
Regardless of psychiatry's change in seeing gay people as equal, it took decades to see the government react to the change of scientific opinion. The government is an institution that is often aligned with science, seeking to use science's results to further its own power and influence. Other institutions, like the church or the market, have other incentives, and other cultures. 
Science is only one voice and one perspective in the sea of voices and perspectives that inform culture. Even within the APA, a scientific institution, science was only a small part of changing the APA's culture regarding gay people. Upper management inside the APA proved to matter significantly more than what scientific experiments concluded. For some, removing homosexuality from the DSM may be the most important event of their lives, while others are unaware it happened. Perhaps the APA would like to think so, but the APA certainly is not the societal arbiter of what is normal and what is not, society is. The APA's role is to observe and document, not judge, except maybe on the edge cases. 