Most modern laptops have LCDs (Liquid Crystal Displays). 
A backlight shines through liquid crystals through numerous filters
	CCFL (Cold Cathode Fluorescent Lamp) are an older technology that is mostly phased out by now. Higher power draw and heat, as well as more thickness contribute to this being phased out.
		CCFL requires AC power, while laptops run on DC. This means there's a converter in the display of CCFL backlit LCDs, which can also fail.
	LEDs are much more common in modern laptops. Typically LEDs are arranged in a grid or a ring around the outside.
The main advantages are that they are lightweight, relatively inexpensive, and relatively low power
The main disadvantages are that it's difficult to get a dark black since the backlight has to shine, and that the backlight can be tough to repair/replace
Types of LCD:
	TN (Twisted Nematic) is the original LCD technology. They have a fast response time and refresh rate, but they have poor viewing angles
	IPS (In Plane Switching) is more expensive, but has better colors
	VA (Vertical Alignment) has good color, but the response times are a bit slower than TN
If an LCD is failing, a way to test the backlight is to turn the device on and shine a flashlight at the screen. If some of the information is visible where the light is reflecting, the issue is with the light.

OLED (Organic Light Emitting Diode) is created from an organic compound that emits light when receiving an electric current. It's thinner and lighter than LCD, and is flexible due to not needing glass. There's also no backlight, which is what makes them light and thin.
More common on smaller devices

Laptops specifically often have WiFi and Bluetooth antennas in their displays because the display is the highest point of the device. Display repairs need to keep this in mind.

Some newer laptops have touchscreens with digitizer technologies. Some digitizers are designed for fingers, others for stylus, and others more for both.