Cell phone coverage is called that because cell phone towers are placed along the edges of connectivity, forming "cells" of land between the towers.
The first networks, 2G, had two standards, the Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM) and Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA)
These first two protocols were designed for voice calls, and were not very good at transmitting data. Required upgrades for data connectivity and packet switching.
GSM was about 90% of the market, and was a standard in the EU. It was used by AT&T and T-Mobile in the U.S. The original standard used multiplexing, where every user gets a slice of time.
CDMA was used by Verizon and Sprint, and as the name suggested, allowed for multiple users to connect and use at the same time, using markers for each signal.
3G was introduced in 1998 upgraded data connectivity. Bandwith improvement allowed for GPS and video streaming over cellular.
Long Term Evolution (LTE) or "4G" converged GSM and CDMA, based on GSM and Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution (EDGE) increased the throughput by about 1.5 orders of magnitude
LTE-A even doubles it
5G was released worldwide in 2020, which creates substantially greater bandwith. Can reach as fast as 10 gigabit/sec.
5G may result in substantial changes in how mobile computing works in the future when it is built out.

Global Positioning System (GPS) is run by the US DOD, works with over 30 satellites
GPS along with Wifi and cellular towers are the main way our phones know where they are