IP (Internet Protocol) is a protocol for transferring data across the internet. 
Nested within the ethernet frame, the IP header gives information about where the packet is headed. Within the IP layer, TCP and UDP are used to transfer data. These exist at the 4th layer of the OSI model. 
TCP (Transmission Control Protocol) is connection based, meaning a session is established between the client and server with a formal start and end. It is reliable, meaning the receiver tells the server what data is received and what isn't, so the gaps can be filled in.
UDP (User Datagram Protocol) is connectionless, and therefore unreliable. This is faster than TCP, used for real-time stuff like calls, video streaming, etc.

IP addresses are similar to street addresses. 
An IPv4 "Socket" is an IP address, protocol (tcp/udp), and port number.

Ports 0 to 1023 are 'permanent port numbers'. These are ports associated strongly with one specific service; e.g. SSH on port 23. 
Ports 1024 to 65535 are 'ephemeral port numbers', which are randomly selected for each session.

# Common Network Ports
FTP (File Transfer Protocol) is a simple protocol for transferring files over the internet. It uses TCP/20 for active mode and TCP/21 for control. FTP authenticates with a username and password, but not all systems require this. 
SSH uses tcp/22, Telnet uses tcp/23. 
SMTP (Simple Mail Transfer Protocol) is used for sending any kind of email traffic. It uses TCP/25. IMAP (Internet Message Access Protocol v4; TCP/143) and POP3 (Post Office Protocol v3; TCP/110) are typically used for receiving mail. IMAP has some more functionality than POP3.
DNS (Domain Name System) is a decentralized database that is used to convert web domain names to IP addresses. It uses UDP/53. 
HTTP (Hypertext Transfer Protocol) is used for communication within web browsers. It is not encrypted, and uses TCP/80.
HTTPS is encrypted HTTP, and uses TCP/443.
RDP (Remote Desktop Protocol) allows for a remote control of a computer over a network, and uses TCP/3389.
SMB (Server Message Block) is a protocol used by MS Windows, also called CIFS (Common Internet File System), made for file sharing and printing. It uses UDP/137 for NetBIOS name services, UDP/138 for NetBIOS datagram service, and TCP/139 for NetBIOS session service. 
Modern Windows also uses TCP/445 for direct SMB communication without NetBIOS.
AFP (Apple Filing Protocol) is Apple's answer to SMB, on TCP/548. Works with SLP (Service Location Protocol) on TCP/UDP/427 which populates the list of available locations. 
DHCP (Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol)  is a protocol for automated configuration of an IP address, subnet mask, and a few other configurations. It is accessed over UDP/67 and UDP/68. IP addresses are assigned in real-time from a pool. Each address is given for a lease and must renew at set intervals. 
LDAP (Lightweight Directory Access Protocol; TCP/389) is often used to access data within a network directory.
SNMP (Simple Network Management Protocol) gathers statistics about network devices. Queries are in UDP/161, traps are in UDP/162. 