Network Interface Card (NIC) a small processor installed in every device on a network. Specific to the network type, ethernet, wireless, WAN, etc.
Repeaters receive signals, regenerate them, and resend them, often used to boost copper or fiber connections or convert them from fiber to copper. Copper has a physical limit on how far it can transfer network signal, so repeaters are often necessary for large networks.
	They are also used to extend wireless networks, as part of wireless access points.
Hubs are multi-port repeaters. Information sent into one interface can be sent back to any number of interfaces. 
	Hubs are half-duplex, meaning only one device can communicate with the others at a time. 
	Not very efficient for large and fast networks. 10/100 megabit at most, and even these are difficult. 
Bridges are links between hubs with 2-4 connections, can connect other bridges. They make forwarding decisions based on their software, often using MAC address. They can also connect different physical networks (wireless/ethernet) and different network topologies.
Switches are a more modern technology. They are much larger, linking together potentially hundreds of devices. Bridging function is completed by the hardware, in an application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC), which allows the size and speed of the switch. This forwards traffic to devices using the data link address. 
	Unmanaged switches are typically smaller, with fewer ports. They have fewer configuration options, and are generally plug and play. There's no management protocols, so cannot be deeply integrated into other devices. Devices are plugged in and can access the same network. They are cheaper, though. 
	Managed switches have VLAN support. They can connect with other switches via 802.1Q. They can prioritize traffic, and they have redundancy support with Spanning Tree Protocol (STP). It can also link with the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) for standardized switch management. You can also set up port mirroring. 
Multilayer switches can also function as routers.
Routers are devices that route traffic between IP subnets. They make decisions based on IP addresses. They are often used for linking different network types, for instance ISP and home internet. 
Wireless LAN controllers are centralized managers for Wireless Access Points. They control functions of the network and configure it, and can deploy new access points, or monitor performance and security.
Firewalls are filters on the 4th layer of the OSI model that filter traffic coming in based on the port number. Some also look at the application. They also can allow for a secure tunnel into a network. Some also can proxy traffic or act as routers.